Glaucoma is a group of eye conditions
in which high pressure inside your eye
damages the optic nerve,
which transmits visual information to the brain.
The eye’s inner pressure
depends on the amount of fluid in the eye.
Increased intraocular pressure in glaucoma
usually results from a build up of fluid
called aqueous humor.
Normally, production and removal
of this fluid is in balance.
It is produced by ciliary bodies
in the area behind the iris
called the posterior chamber.
It flows up the back side of the iris,
out of the pupil,
into the area in front of the iris,
called the anterior chamber.
It leaves the eye at the angle
where the iris and cornea meet,
flowing through spongy tissue
called the trabecular network
into a channel that is part of the venous bloodstream.
In closed-angle glaucoma,
the iris bulges forward
and blocks the fluid from reaching the network.
The fluid builds up
and intraocular pressure increases,
usually suddenly.
In open-angle glaucoma,
the trabecular network is partially blocked
so the fluid drains out too slowly.
As fluid backs up,
pressure in the eye slowly increases.
There may be substantial vision loss
before the problem is identified.